README.md, before:


# Patio Smart Community Brain

This repository contains the software expected to be running on PATIO, the IOT Hub developed by [Supervecina](https://www.supervecina.com) . It is currently using Raspberry Pi hardware, but can be replaced by an Omega2 LTE or similar.

## Brief code organization overview:
- MAM client is a process listening to new messages from EnergyManager to be published to IOTA's MAM channels, returning the transaction address to allow future queries and verification.

- EnergyManager contains the EnergyMonitor, that periodically monitors the generated and consumed energy in a community.

- start_scb script setups the virtualenv, installs npm packages, and launch both processes mentioned above.

- django_app contains the app that must be plugged into the backend for SaaS integration.

## Zenroom
- Alternatively, Zenroom can be used instead of IOTA's MAM channels. For that, the smart contract is already wrapped into a Dockerfile under zenroom folder that needs to be build and running before launching the energy monitoring process:
`docker build -t zenroom_patio .`
`docker run -p 3300:3300 -p 3301:3301 zenroom_patio`

Example save:
<code>POST http://localhost:3300/api/patio_save_energy
{
  "data": {"dataToStore": {"amount": "5W",
                        "datetime": "2021-10-10 10:10",
                        "sensor_id": "sensor",
                        "type": "c_type",
                        "community_unique_id": "community_unique_id"
                        }
                },

  "keys": {}
}</code>

Example get log:
<code>POST http://localhost:3300/api/patio_load_energy_log
{
  "data": {"log_tag_id": "c274b506658032b6f55e6d8c930b0f81f9aec4d629040773f637579793b2ea441f6260"},
  "keys": {}
}</code>


## R+D

Supported by the Ledger Project, we are going to connect PATIO, Supervecina.com and Comunitaria.com by monitoring the production and consumption of local energy through solar panels. Then, the HOAs can buy or sell the energy generated, giving the revenue to charity (Comunitaria) or using it to reduce monthly bills.

Given that each HOA (Homeowner Association) can be treated as a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO), and taking advantage of the IoT devices flexibility and ease of adoption, we are exploring the integration with DLTs for critical use cases (votings, incidence reporting, ...). Interaction with other blockchains (like FOAM) can also be achieved through the Cosmos Network.

This way, our PATIO device will be able to:
- monitor and track energy production/consumption
- connect with FOAM beacons and zone anchors
- manage automatic door accesses 
- monitor lifts status and mandatory periodical service
- monitor water consumption

Then, it will impact collected data on DLT technologies (this way we avoid cons of local storage, connection availability, etc.).  
Features can be expanded by connecting the hub to our SaaS, where data can be automatically analyzed with trending algorithms to provide customized services.

Commit message:

Changed path to be under /opt

README.md, after:


# Patio Smart Community Brain

This repository contains the software expected to be running on PATIO, the IOT Hub developed by [Supervecina](https://www.supervecina.com) . It is currently using Raspberry Pi hardware, but can be replaced by an Omega2 LTE or similar.

## Brief code organization overview:
- MAM client is a process listening to new messages from EnergyManager to be published to IOTA's MAM channels, returning the transaction address to allow future queries and verification.

- EnergyManager contains the EnergyMonitor, that periodically monitors the generated and consumed energy in a community.

- start_scb script setups the virtualenv, installs npm packages, and launch both processes mentioned above. The entire directory should be under /opt. So, under /opt/patio must be the source and the start_scb script.

- django_app contains the app that must be plugged into the backend for SaaS integration.

## Zenroom
- Alternatively, Zenroom can be used instead of IOTA's MAM channels. For that, the smart contract is already wrapped into a Dockerfile under zenroom folder that needs to be build and running before launching the energy monitoring process:
`docker build -t zenroom_patio .`
`docker run -p 3300:3300 -p 3301:3301 zenroom_patio`

Example save:
<code>POST http://localhost:3300/api/patio_save_energy
{
  "data": {"dataToStore": {"amount": "5W",
                        "datetime": "2021-10-10 10:10",
                        "sensor_id": "sensor",
                        "type": "c_type",
                        "community_unique_id": "community_unique_id"
                        }
                },

  "keys": {}
}</code>

Example get log:
<code>POST http://localhost:3300/api/patio_load_energy_log
{
  "data": {"log_tag_id": "c274b506658032b6f55e6d8c930b0f81f9aec4d629040773f637579793b2ea441f6260"},
  "keys": {}
}</code>


## R+D

Supported by the Ledger Project, we are going to connect PATIO, Supervecina.com and Comunitaria.com by monitoring the production and consumption of local energy through solar panels. Then, the HOAs can buy or sell the energy generated, giving the revenue to charity (Comunitaria) or using it to reduce monthly bills.

Given that each HOA (Homeowner Association) can be treated as a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO), and taking advantage of the IoT devices flexibility and ease of adoption, we are exploring the integration with DLTs for critical use cases (votings, incidence reporting, ...). Interaction with other blockchains (like FOAM) can also be achieved through the Cosmos Network.

This way, our PATIO device will be able to:
- monitor and track energy production/consumption
- connect with FOAM beacons and zone anchors
- manage automatic door accesses 
- monitor lifts status and mandatory periodical service
- monitor water consumption

Then, it will impact collected data on DLT technologies (this way we avoid cons of local storage, connection availability, etc.).  
Features can be expanded by connecting the hub to our SaaS, where data can be automatically analyzed with trending algorithms to provide customized services.
